# Sidd Nambiar
> Data Scientist

> National Institutes of Health, All of Us Research Program

**Hi!** I'm a Data Scientist supporting the All of Us Research Program (AOU) at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), working with Covalent Solutions LLC. AOU was established to accelerate health research and medical breakthroughs to enable an era of precision medicine for all. The program seeks to achieve this mission through building relationships with one million or more participant partners, delivering the largest, richest biomedical dataset ever, and catalyzing a robust ecosystem of researchers eager to use the dataset to advance human health. As Data Scientist, my role is to build sophisticated data pipelines and products to wrangle and analyze data, drive analytics innovation and experimentation to enable data-driven insights for complex business and scientific problems, thereby playing a key role to enable application of advanced analytics techniques across the organization. My background is in Industrial and Systems Engineering with a specialization in healthcare systems and processes. During my time in Graduate School at North Carolina State University and as a PostDoc at MedStar Health Research Institute, I have been involved in efforts that use operations research (OR), data science, and analytics to improve access to care, better identify patient health conditions, and inform public policies. Most of my work has had the underlying theme of incorporating the ‘human’ element in OR/Analytics models to influence policy on a large scale.

I strongly ascribe to the ideology that factors that influence decisions made by algorithms be visible and transparent to those who use them, and to those who are affected by systems that employ them. I have a deep interest in promoting algorithmic hygiene and in working with multiple stakeholders to ensure that the models we develop (OR/ML/AL) are ethical and free of discrimination.

**If you'd like to reach out, please contact me [via email](mailto:siddharthanambiar@gmail.com)**

**Please feel free to check out my <a href="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1XscZT_aIRIrRBNAjQ4H1L254XA4KG6cW/view" target="_blank">CV (linked here)</a>. I am happy to provide a resume upon request.**